[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Because I've been doing
this kind of work for so long
in the trenches,
one-on-one with people,
people who've been doing
raw food for 20 years,
people who've never
heard of organic food,
people who've been organic but
are just turning themselves
onto organic and raw foods--
because of that body of
work and that time out
there amongst the
people, we've been
able to distill down
or literally juice down
what the essential requirements
are to take you from A to Z
as fast as possible with
these without suffering,
without pain, without regret,
without guilt, fear, or shame.
It comes down to two steps.
Number 1 is adding into your
diet fresh organic vegetable
juices--
celery juice, celery cucumber
juice, celery cucumber apple.
You just put it
through a juice machine
and drink it right
there on the spot.
This has an ability
to bring life force
energy to the tissues
almost instantaneously
within 15 minutes.
And it's a technology that
we've known about for probably
about 80 to 100 years.
It was very popularized by
Dr. Norman Walker in the 1940s
and '50s, brought to prominence
by my friend Jay Kordich.
And then now we're
in an evolved stage
where people know
what juicers are.
They know that they can
do this kind of thing.
Health food stores
that they have
in their local neighborhoods
have juice machines.
And now we've just
got to get on it.
We've just got to say,
every day I do that.
I have 12 ounces, 16 ounces
of fresh vegetable juice.
Step 2 is adding in superfoods.
This is a language that
everyone can speak.
It's a subconscious kind
of prejudice that we have,
which is very important.
And that is we'd rather get
our vitamins and minerals
from food versus
supplements and chemicals.
This has led people naturally
to discover superfoods
and discover that
certain foods have
an extraordinary quality
of vitamins and minerals
and all kinds of
co-factors and enzymes
and special chemicals that, for
example, will cause us to live
longer, will cause
our skin to be
softer, et cetera, et cetera.
We've categorized
these as superfoods.
And here's what they include.
In one class, we'll start
with the B products--
wild honey, wild bee
pollen, royal jelly.
Things that are
collected by the bees
have this extraordinary quote,
unquote, "superfood quality."
In Russia, they did 150 years
of research on longevity.
And they found that the
people who live the longest
were beekeepers.
In my experience, I've found
that the longest lived people
that I personally
know are beekeepers.
So there's some
interesting truth to it.
In days of old before there were
superfoods all over the planet,
the way you would do
it was bee products.
Now, fortunately, we've
got other choices.
What are those other choices?
Well, we've got the algaes.
People like, ah, algae?
This is un-- I'm
not going to eat
the algae growing in my pool.
This is not what
we're talking about.
Some algaes are edible
just for example.
Like some tree saps are
edible, some aren't.
Maple sap is edible but, for
example, pine sap is, you know,
not going to be edible,
because it's going
to glue your mouth together.
If you can tune
into just one or two
of these kind of
superfood algaes,
sometimes you might be able
to discover that you've
found something that
works so great for you,
you can't believe it.
But you can't know till you try.
What are they?
Spirulina, blue/green algae from
Klamath Lake, and chlorella.
These are the top three
in the algae world.
Spirulina was consumed in Mexico
City as the primary protein
source for 5,000 years.
Spirulina is the highest protein
content food in the world.
The Max Planck Institute
discovered that 50% of protein
is destroyed in any food
once you cook the food.
Therefore, superfood,
plant-based protein sources
are going to be a key
food of the future.
Guess which ones we have?
Spirulina, blue/green
algae, chlorella.
They're some of the highest
protein foods in the world.
They're more than 60% protein.
The next category, of
course, is the goji berry.
Goji berries is a
product that I originally
brought to the internet.
First person to actually bring
that product onto the internet,
to bring awareness
about that product,
bring the first organic goji
berries into the marketplace,
and bring awareness that there
is a berry out there that
is a complete protein source.
There is a berry out there that
contains all 18 amino acids
that are required for
excellent nutrition, health,
physical robustness,
and mental alertness.
There is a berry out
there that really
does contain longevity factors.
And in fact, the goji berry is
the only food ever discovered
in the history of
the world to actually
help stimulate the production
of human growth hormone
naturally--
your own human growth hormone.
Goji berries contain betaine,
which is a liver detoxifier
and cleanser which we need
now more than ever, because we
have so many toxins
in our environment.
Goji berries are one of the
highest antioxidant sources
ever in anything.
They're right on par with acai.
And the only thing higher
than goji berries and acai
in antioxidants is cacao,
which is our next superfood.
Sometimes we've seen this
word C-O-C-O-A, "cocoa,"
and people get that
confused with coconuts,
and they get that
confused with kola nuts.
And what is cocoa?
What is that?
It's really the word is
"cacao," C-A-C-A-O, cacao beans.
And this is the food or
the nut that all chocolate
is made out of.
This food is very likely
the most powerful food
in the world, and
it's very likely
the food that could save us.
Because chocolate can only be
grown in an intact rainforest
environment.
If we cut down
the rainforest, we
destroy the ability to
grow the cacao tree.
This tree actually produces a
huge quantity of cacao beans
all year around.
Chocolate is the only
fruit other than noni
that's always in season.
So chocolate's always good.
It's always a good
time to have chocolate.
That to me is an
amazing discovery.
What a concept.
You can eat chocolate
all year long,
and it's always in season?
There's no other
fruit like that.
Chocolate is truly
and botanically a nut
because it is the seed
of a tropical fruit tree.
The fruit of cacao--
the cacao fruit,
the actual flesh of the fruit--
is awesome and rivals the
top fruits in the world.
Just want to put that out there.
Because if you ever
have the opportunity--
you're in the tropics somewhere
in a big cacao-growing nation
like Ecuador or Peru or
Brazil or Costa Rica,
you can actually get whole,
fresh cacao fruits and eat
them--
the whole thing,
everything-- the fruit,
the flesh, the
seeds, everything.
And it is-- it's a high.
It's what people are
really looking for.
I mean, why do
people take drugs?
Because they feel terrible, so
they're trying to feel better,
they're trying to feel good.
Well, check it out.
If you actually have
the best nutrition ever,
you feel good all the time.
And if you do drugs, it
actually takes you down.
Because you're already higher
than the drugs can take you.
That is critical information
for, for example,
drug rehab centers.
It's critical to know that
instead of taking people
off drugs and onto
coffee and cigarettes
that you could
take them off drugs
and get them onto cacao
beans and goji berries
and really have
people feeling good
and getting what
they're missing,
which is causing the need for
the drugs in the first place.
Cacao beans stack up
on the mineral content
against anything in the world.
I'll put cacao up against any
food in the world on mineral
content.
It's the highest natural
source of magnesium.
source of chromium.
It's very likely the highest
natural source of iron.
natural source of manganese.
It's one of the highest
contents of zinc.
contents of copper.
All the co-factors needed
for healthy metabolism,
it's in the cacao bean.
It has the highest level
of vitamin C of any nut
or seed in the world.
That is astonishing.
It's one of the highest vitamin
C content foods in the world,
but all processed chocolate
has no vitamin C in it
because heat destroys
vitamin C. It has the highest
antioxidant content.
That means that if we are really
going to take advantage of what
we learned in nutrition-- that
antioxidants protect us from
DNA damage, viral
damage, cancer,
protect us from skin damage,
et cetera, et cetera--
how do we heal ourselves
from all those things
or prevent those
things from happening?
Eat more chocolate.
What a concept.
I mean, it's
unbelievable, and it's
always been right in
front of our face forever.
It's always been
right there, the thing
that could actually save us.
This to me indicates a higher
intelligence is at work.
It indicates to me that God is
kind of always just throwing
clues at us.
And because it's a
free will experiment,
we can either say yes or no.
And unfortunately, we
said no for a while.
We decided that we could improve
God's original food or nature's
original food or the creator's
original food or higher
intelligence's original
food or whatever
by cooking, processing,
roasting, broasting,
microwaving, whatever.
Can we actually improve what
has already been created?
And the answer is maybe, but
not the way we've been doing it.
We've got to work with nature
and with natural phenomenon,
because nature's figured
out how to produce
this stuff over some
exorbitant amount of time
in the heart of God's love.
And then we came along and
said, oh, that's all wrong.
We can do it better.
This is one of the reasons
why not only are we oriented
towards superfoods, but we're
oriented towards raw foods
and original and natural foods.
Can you actually
live on raw food?
And I've been doing
it for 13 years.
And the amazing thing is
that I'm still alive actually
compared to what I heard.
People said your ear
is going to fall off,
your toenails are going
to crack, or whatever.
I mean, I heard
everything possible,
and people were sincere.
They really thought
maybe, you know,
this guy's gone
off the deep end.
But they were sincerely wrong.
It's like people have said,
hey, you can't fly a plane,
you'll crash.
Well, we're flying in
planes all the time now.
Good thing we didn't
listen to those people.
This is important.
This is how science
advances-- real science, not
contrived science.
But real science
advances by the pioneers
step out, do the research,
experiment on themselves,
make the discoveries, add the
information to the general body
of education.
People pick it up and go,
you know, that makes sense.
These people did the research.
We're going to go for it.
They do it themselves
and feel it.
Nutrition is very different
than other sciences
in this particular respect.
And that is,
nutrition is something
you feel in your body, in
your heart, in your mind,
and it's not esoteric.
It's not something far
away where you're going,
well, I think that guy told
me that I need to do this
or I think this is good for me.
You feel it.
You know.
If you take something for a
while and your body says no,
it's going to be a no.
And if you take
something brand new--
let's say it's goji
berries-- and your body goes
yes, yes, yes, keep going,
you're onto it, keep going.
This is something
you intuitively know.
I feel very strongly
that the best
doctor in the world, the best
nutritionist in the world
is you.
You actually have
everything inside you,
all the equipment necessary
to feel if something
is right for you or not.
[MUSIC PLAYING]